On an afternoon of the following week, Scarlett came home from the
hospital weary and indignant.  She was tired from standing on her
feet all morning and irritable because Mrs. Merriwether had
scolded her sharply for sitting on a soldier's bed while she
dressed his wounded arm.  Aunt Pitty and Melanie, bonneted in
their best, were on the porch with Wade and Prissy, ready for
their weekly round of calls.  Scarlett asked to be excused from
accompanying them and went upstairs to her room.

When the last sound of carriage wheels had died away and she knew
the family was safely out of sight, she slipped quietly into
Melanie's room and turned the key in the lock.  It was a prim,
virginal little room and it lay still and warm in the slanting
rays of the four-o'clock sun.  The floors were glistening and bare
except for a few bright rag rugs, and the white walls unornamented
save for one corner which Melanie had fitted up as a shrine.

Here, under a draped Confederate flag, hung the gold-hilted saber
that Melanie's father had carried in the Mexican War, the same
saber Charles had worn away to war.  Charles' sash and pistol belt
hung there too, with his revolver in the holster.  Between the
saber and the pistol was a daguerreotype of Charles himself, very
stiff and proud in his gray uniform, his great brown eyes shining
out of the frame and a shy smile on his lips.

Scarlett did not even glance at the picture but went unhesitatingly
across the room to the square rosewood writing box that stood on the
table beside the narrow bed.  From it she took a pack of letters
tied together with a blue ribbon, addressed in Ashley's hand to
Melanie.  On the top was the letter which had come that morning and
this one she opened.

When Scarlett first began secretly reading these letters, she had
been so stricken of conscience and so fearful of discovery she
could hardly open the envelopes for trembling.  Now, her never-
too-scrupulous sense of honor was dulled by repetition of the
offense and even fear of discovery had subsided.  Occasionally,
she thought with a sinking heart, "What would Mother say if she
knew?"  She knew Ellen would rather see her dead than know her
guilty of such dishonor.  This had worried Scarlett at first, for
she still wanted to be like her mother in every respect.  But the
temptation to read the letters was too great and she put the
thought of Ellen out of her mind.  She had become adept at putting
unpleasant thoughts out of her mind these days.  She had learned
to say, "I won't think of this or that bothersome thought now.
I'll think about it tomorrow."  Generally when tomorrow came, the
thought either did not occur at all or it was so attenuated by the
delay it was not very troublesome.  So the matter of Ashley's
letters did not lie very heavily on her conscience.

Melanie was always generous with the letters, reading parts of
them aloud to Aunt Pitty and Scarlett.  But it was the part she
did not read that tormented Scarlett, that drove her to
surreptitious reading of her sister-in-law's mail.  She had to
know if Ashley had come to love his wife since marrying her.  She
had to know if he even pretended to love her.  Did he address
tender endearments to her?  What sentiments did he express and
with what warmth?

She carefully smoothed out the letter.

Ashley's small even writing leaped up at her as she read, "My dear
wife," and she breathed in relief.  He wasn't calling Melanie
"Darling" or "Sweetheart" yet.

"My Dear wife:  You write me saying you are alarmed lest I be
concealing my real thoughts from you and you ask me what is
occupying my mind these days--"

"Mother of God!" thought Scarlett, in a panic of guilt.
"'Concealing his real thoughts.'  Can Melly have read his mind?
Or my mind?  Does she suspect that he and I--"

Her hands trembled with fright as she held the letter closer, but
as she read the next paragraph she relaxed.

"Dear Wife, if I have concealed aught from you it is because I did
not wish to lay a burden on your shoulders, to add to your worries
for my physical safety with those of my mental turmoil.  But I can
keep nothing from you, for you know me too well.  Do not be
alarmed.  I have no wound.  I have not been ill.  I have enough to
eat and occasionally a bed to sleep in.  A soldier can ask for no
more.  But, Melanie, heavy thoughts lie on my heart and I will
open my heart to you.

"These summer nights I lie awake, long after the camp is sleeping,
and I look up at the stars and, over and over, I wonder, 'Why are
you here, Ashley Wilkes?  What are you fighting for?'

"Not for honor and glory, certainly.  War is a dirty business and
I do not like dirt.  I am not a soldier and I have no desire to
seek the bubble reputation even in the cannon's mouth.  Yet, here
I am at the wars--whom God never intended to be other than a
studious country gentleman.  For, Melanie, bugles do not stir my
blood nor drums entice my feet and I see too clearly that we have
been betrayed, betrayed by our arrogant Southern selves, believing
that one of us could whip a dozen Yankees, believing that King
Cotton could rule the world.  Betrayed, too, by words and catch
phrases, prejudices and hatreds coming from the mouths of those
highly placed, those men whom we respected and revered--'King
Cotton, Slavery, States' Rights, Damn Yankees.'

"And so when I lie on my blanket and look up at the stars and say
'What are you fighting for?' I think of States' Rights and cotton
and the darkies and the Yankees whom we have been bred to hate,
and I know that none of these is the reason why I am fighting.
Instead, I see Twelve Oaks and remember how the moonlight slants
across the white columns, and the unearthly way the magnolias
look, opening under the moon, and how the climbing roses make the
side porch shady even at the hottest noon.  And I see Mother,
sewing there, as she did when I was a little boy.  And I hear the
darkies coming home across the fields at dusk, tired and singing
and ready for supper, and the sound of the windlass as the bucket
goes down into the cool well.  And there's the long view down the
road to the river, across the cotton fields, and the mist rising
from the bottom lands in the twilight.  And that is why I'm here
who have no love of death or misery or glory and no hatred for
anyone.  Perhaps that is what is called patriotism, love of home
and country.  But Melanie, it goes deeper than that.  For,
Melanie, these things I have named are but the symbols of the
thing for which I risk my life, symbols of the kind of life I
love.  For I am fighting for the old days, the old ways I love so
much but which, I fear, are now gone forever, no matter how the
die may fall.  For, win or lose, we lose just the same.

"If we win this war and have the Cotton Kingdom of our dreams, we
still have lost, for we will become a different people and the old
quiet ways will go.  The world will be at our doors clamoring for
cotton and we can command our own price.  Then, I fear, we will
become like the Yankees, at whose money-making activities,
acquisitiveness and commercialism we now sneer.  And if we lose,
Melanie, if we lose!

"I am not afraid of danger or capture or wounds or even death, if
death must come, but I do fear that once this war is over, we will
never get back to the old times.  And I belong in those old times.
I do not belong in this mad present of killing and I fear I will
not fit into any future, try though I may.  Nor will you, my dear,
for you and I are of the same blood.  I do not know what the
future will bring, but it cannot be as beautiful or as satisfying
as the past.

"I lie and look at the boys sleeping near me and I wonder if the
twins or Alex or Cade think these same thoughts.  I wonder if they
know they are fighting for a Cause that was lost the minute the
first shot was fired, for our Cause is really our own way of
living and that is gone already.  But I do not think they think
these things and they are lucky.

"I had not thought of this for us when I asked you to marry me.  I
had thought of life going on at Twelve Oaks as it had always done,
peacefully, easily, unchanging.
